h2. Installing Redmine on Open Solaris

Author: Mark Wolfe

h3. Introduction

A friend of mine recently asked me to assist him in getting Radmine going on opensolaris, this apparently is no mean feat on the recent version. 

This document explains how to setup a clean zone with a ruby runtime environment and all the dependencies required to run Radmine.

h3. Background

Having used Solaris for many years, and as I have an open solaris box myself I know there are potential issues with Ruby software on this platform. With this in mind I normally start by assessing whether the base requirements were available in the "distribution", or whether I am going to have to use third party software.

To do this I created a zone and ran into a range of issues utilising the pre built ruby runtime(see links section). So for this reason I decided to take an alternate route and use an island environment to run the application. I chose Blastwave as i have used it in the past, and because it has a simple dependency management tool.

h3. Process

I have documented the steps I used to install Redmine, these have the following assumptions:
* You already have a Postgres in another zone or on another server.
* Your deploying to a zone.
* You have a zfs volume mounted at /data with a sub volume called zones.

# Create a zone to house our redmine, as I was bored and hate zone0002232 like names i called mine theghan. 

http://www.the-ghan.com.au/

# Create a zone using the following commands.
<pre><code>
$ pfexec zfs create data/zones/theghan
$ pfexec chmod 700 /data/zones/theghan
</code></pre>
# Configure the zone.
<pre><code>
$ pfexec zonecfg -z theghan
create -b
set zonepath=/data/zones/theghan
set brand=ipkg
set autoboot=true
set ip-type=shared
add net
set address=192.168.X.X/24
set physical=e1000g0
end
</code></pre>
# Install the zone then boot it.
<pre><code>
$ pfexec zoneadm -z theghan install
$ pfexec zoneadm -z theghan boot
</code></pre>
# Attach to the console of the zone and do the post install configuration.
<pre><code>
$ pfexec zlogin -C theghan
</code></pre>
# Shut the zone down and back it all up.
<pre><code>
$ pfexec zoneadm -z theghan halt
</code></pre>
# Using zfs snapshot the zone.
<pre><code>
$ pfexec zfs snapshot -r data/zones/theghan@200912051352
</code></pre>
*NOTE:* The r switch does recursive snapshots as the zone is split into volumes using zfs.
# In my case I simply copy the NSS and resolver configurations across.
<pre><code>
$ pfexec cp /etc/resolv.conf /data/zones/theghan/root/etc/
$ pfexec cp /etc/nsswitch.conf /data/zones/theghan/root/etc/
</code></pre>
# Boot the zone.
<pre><code>
$ pfexec zoneadm -z theghan boot
</code></pre>
# Login to the zone, this time using the normal method.
<pre><code>
$ pfexec zlogin theghan
</code></pre>
# Install the Postgres as I like to query my database some times.
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# pkg install SUNWpostgr-82-client SUNWpostgr-82-devel
</code></pre>
# Install wget and the "retro" package commands.
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# pkg install SUNWwget SUNWpkgcmds SUNWgtar
</code></pre>
# Download and install the base blastwave package manager.
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# pkgadd -d http://blastwave.network.com/csw/pkgutil_`/sbin/uname -p`.pkg
</code></pre>
# Modify the path for root by updating the PATH variable in the /root/.profile.
<pre><code>
export PATH=/usr/gnu/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/X11/bin:/usr/sbin:/sbin:/opt/csw/bin
</code></pre>
*NOTE:* You will need to relog for this to take effect.
# Install ruby from blastwave.
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# pkgutil -i ruby
</code></pre>
# Download ruby gems.
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# wget http://rubyforge.org/frs/download.php/60718/rubygems-1.3.5.tgz
</code></pre>
# Extract the archive using GNU tar.
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# gtar xvzf rubygems-1.3.5.tgz
</code></pre>
# cd into the folder and run the setup script.
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# cd rubygems-1.3.5
root@theghan:~# ruby setup.rb
</code></pre>
# Install rake, the ruby based build tool. 
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# gem install rake
</code></pre>
# Install the pure ruby PostgreSQL driver
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# gem install postgres-pr
</code></pre>
# Install the rails, passing the version required for redmine 0.8
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# gem install -v=2.1.2 rails
</code></pre>
# Install SVN so we can grab a copy of redmine.
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# pkgutil -i subversion
</code></pre>
# Install redmine, in this case i am putting it in /opt and cd into the application directory.
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# svn export http://redmine.rubyforge.org/svn/branches/0.8-stable redmine-0.8
root@theghan:~# cd redmine-0.8
</code></pre>
# Configure your database, in my case I have added the following to the config/database.yml. This has setup a datasource with the production tag.
<pre><code>
	production:
	  adapter: postgresql
	  database: redmine
	  host: 192.168.X.XXX
	  username: redmine
	  password: XXXXXXXX
	  encoding: utf8
</code></pre>
# Migrate the database schema into the production database and add the the default data.
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# RAILS_ENV=production rake db:migrate
root@theghan:~# RAILS_ENV=production rake redmine:load_default_data
</code></pre>
# Run the application using the inbuilt redbrick web server.
<pre><code>
root@theghan:~# ruby script/server webrick -e production
</code></pre>

h2. Database Set Up

In my case I have a PostgreSQL server installed in another zone, hence the omittion of any instructions about creating a database. For people not familiar with this server I have just put the commands below.
 
<pre><code>
CREATE ROLE redmine LOGIN ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'XXXXXXXX' NOINHERIT VALID UNTIL 'infinity';
CREATE DATABASE redmine WITH ENCODING='UTF8' OWNER=redmine;
</code></pre>
